hi guys so today i'm going to be doing
something a little bit different
i've got this huge stack of physical
paper notes
that i would like to convert into super
memory elements
and you're probably wondering why
i have this huge stack of physical notes
and the only answer i can give you is
that i am a caveman
um so obviously uh these physical notes
huge number of disadvantages um
number one can't use ctrl f to actually
find anything um
they're completely unprioritized i mean
the stack
the order doesn't mean anything so we're
really truly going to be trawling
through the
sewers of my mind trying to find uh
cream in the dirt um
so i figured you know while i'm doing
that i might as well turn this into sort
of a
live uh brainstorming or idea generation
session
right um there must be some good stuff
in here somewhere
uh since i could be bothered to write it
down uh suggest that
there might be something uh decent in
there
um and so there's also like a community
and interactive aspect like
if you see any uh any sort of
things that you think are interesting or
there are ideas that you love or hate
you can let me know on twitter or in the
sma discord
i'll leave the links in the description
i would love to uh
hear your thoughts and um
yeah so it kind of links with
the first note i've got here which is
about
asynchronous brainstorming and that's
sort of what gave me the idea to do this
video
um so a bunch of us
a while back we had this idea
to um sort of reduce
the amount of time we were spending on
discord and it was very much
influenced by one of
was's um faqs on the supermaker website
and i'll just try and pull it up right
now um
right so this question was all about um
you know was with his uh with his
lifestyle his aesthetic to
devotion to his work and his uh creative
pursuits
he doesn't like to spend and waste i
guess in his
um in his opinion the uh
waste time uh you know traveling between
meetings um
calling people up to have conversations
that might not be super
uh useful um he suggested this idea
uh for a way to brainstorm with others
at the perfect time and he basically
says
here that um
i think it's right here yeah in a
brainstorming group
individuals ready for an intense net
meeting exchange
can set up a readiness flag this is the
real part that uh
that hooked me and a couple of other
people and await the moment when their
readiness
coincides with others in the same group
okay so this is the whole idea of
asynchronous brainstorming
you uh you somehow need to
send a signal into the world um that you
are ready to brainstorm
and no one else can see if the signal um
completely independent of you someone
else decides that they're ready to
brainstorm and they
also send up a signal then the system
matches those two people
and alerts them both that they should go
and chat about whatever ideas they have
okay
so this idea um strategy pattern xander
from the podcast
um he actually built this prototype he
calls it um
ready to brainstorm um i'd love to
actually show it to you on
the video but i forgot my password so
i'm going to actually have to get him to
reset but it's really cool it's like
um a website and there's just one button
that says like
ready if you click the button and if
someone else clicks their button at the
same time or they
click it within a certain time frame a
notification will pop up on your desktop
and tell you that um you know so-and-so
is ready to brainstorm
you should hop on discord and so it's
actually really successful
and um at least as a prototype
it seems to work quite well and
this is i guess this um video sort of
uh another extension of that um
i'm trying to share my ideas
in sort of a public way learn with the
garage door open i think as andy matush
i put it in his notes
i really like that phrase and the whole
idea behind it
rather than locking ideas behind a
closed door and just working on them in
isolation
protecting them until you've sort of um
incubated them long enough that you can
release them into the world
what i prefer to do is you know put a
bunch of stuff out there
see which ones people which ideas
people think are worth uh discussing and
developing and use that as like a
barometer for which
ideas are worth prioritizing higher than
others
okay so i think we can move on to
i guess the second note
um right so yeah this one reminds me of
um
oh well i mean it was written when i was
super interested in starting a machine
learning project
and i still am i'm right on the edge of
being ready to um
actually go deep into starting this
project there's just a couple more
pieces i need to do um
but yeah this was i i really think
machine learning
is such a good um domain
to be studied in supermemo because it
touches so many different areas
i mean since you're using super memory
already you're already interested
in um learning approaches to learning
and things like that
and there are so many analogies and
parallels you
you can draw between the ways that
neural networks
function and like how a human learns
and really the objective of machine
learning is to
create systems that can
learn as well as humans learn
and better obviously in the future um
let's see
nothing interesting on this note let's
move on
all right i recognize this note
immediately
this one is um
from uh when was during the discord
uh unexpectedly on the 33rd anniversary
i think of
supermemo he just randomly came into the
discord and decided to
sort of do a q a he was just typing in
the chat and
uh responding to people's questions and
these are basically a few of the notes
that i
took on that um
on that uh meeting so i'll just type
this up actually i think it's worth
actually remembering
uh storing uh what happened on that day
because it's so cool
yeah there we go it was so funny uh
was while he was um responding to
questions
he kept saying uh maybe he just said
this once but it just made me laugh so
hard
he said uh he was holding his breath
because he was so excited
while uh responding to the questions and
i don't know it just gave me um
it kind of uh gave me this idea of you
know he was so excited he was holding
his breath
are there any other physiological
measures
of when you're really interested in a
topic
um some of the ideas i've had before
like eye tracking
i noticed in the video i did the other
day
um you know i was sort of re-watching
the video when i was editing it
and i noticed like how my eyes were
moving like
across a when i was reading and i was
wondering
are there any um yeah just any
physiological science that you can use
to measure interest in a certain thing
and
really the the um
the application of this for me would be
um
you know are you able to record that
sort of data in real time for example
with the webcam
and maybe when you measure that a
person's interest
in when they're reading a topic for
example if i'm
um reading this topic and
there's some physiological signal that
gets measured by the webcam
such as my eyes you know they start
drifting or something i don't know
um maybe it automatically just skips to
the next topic for me because it's
measured that
my interest was so was was getting low
like i often
um i don't think everyone agrees with me
i i've tried to
make this point before and other people
just say you can just
measure for yourself you know while
you're reading how interested you are in
a topic but i
i often find that i try and push through
perhaps um you know even though my
interest has started to drop i always
try and
push on a little bit further because
like i still have the feeling
sometimes that um
i feel like i have to get something out
of the topic before i move on
uh so i don't know uh
food for thought right
yeah um some other good stuff from there
um was this relentless optimism
um if things go bad i just say let's
start learning i thought that was such a
good quote
and yeah it just shows his
um relentless optimism and they are in
the face of
adversity and i really respected that so
i'm definitely going to keep that as a
quote
i might i think i'll actually turn it
into an item because it was that good
all right um
as for the rest of the stuff uh
i don't think it's that useful let's
move on
this is one thing that interested me why
there's
very little interest interest from
machine learning
engineers people who are researching
deep learning and
machine learning why is there no
interest from them in
space repetition systems since
you know the goal as i just mentioned
earlier
one of the goals of machine learning is
to
try and find ways to
uh emulate and improve on this like the
speed of human learning
especially and how quickly we're able to
make sort of accurate generalizations um
sometimes from very few instances and
we don't need to be trained on a huge
amount of data to
uh recognize certain things and learn
certain concepts
um i was curious as to why there was
very little
interest in people sort of studying
uh the top ways in which
people learn like the top techniques for
human learning and
maybe trying to find uh
some things that they could apply to
their research in machine learning and
perhaps part of the reason is that
uh just not many people know about
um space repetition and if they do
they're likely to
encounter it in the context of language
learning or
cramming for school basically
[Music]
and they don't think that that
the application of space repetition
they don't know about the application of
space repetition for
like creative pursuits like writing and
stuff like that things that
they might be more interested in um
so that's possible a more cynical way to
perhaps think about it is that maybe
they're so specialized into their domain
that they just aren't looking outside of
that domain
i don't know
um let's see
yeah like i said earlier machine
learning
seems like such a great field for
incremental reading
and massive learning because it just
covers so many different domains like
uh just endless
explorations that you could do endless
analogies that you could make in
connections between
many different fields it would truly be
a multi-discipli
multi-disciplinary
sort of project which would be really
cool and just
sm suits that sort of inquiry
very well
um yeah
this one was based on some thoughts i
had
about uh space repetition algorithms
so a lot of people will
come into the discord and they will ask
about um
you know the algorithm that uh c member
uses
uh i think it's sm18 or whatever sm17
the algorithm and um
sometimes they're surprised to learn
that was
isn't really that interested in
applying um machine learning and neural
networks to
creating a better um
space repetition algorithm at least
that's as far as i know
i think you know what i should check
that right now just to be sure but
i i do recall um
reading an article where he basically
said something to that effect
right yeah so i think at least
from this article i hope it's um
i hope it's up to date uh
going off this article it seems like um
what i wrote was correct so um the whole
idea behind was not really being
interested
in applying neural networks and machine
learning to
creating a better space repetition
algorithm
is that he uh
he says here um neural networks have the
capacity to re
reveal patterns and approximately
unknown functions but for was
since he's developed this um
i yeah two or three um component model
of uh long-term memory
in learning uh he believes that
um you know since he's already like
like learning for him it's it's a known
function rather than an unknown function
so he's
going to stick with the um
stick with the algebraic approach that
he's already using
okay guys um that's gonna be it for
today um
i'm thinking about keeping some of these
videos uh a little bit shorter because
i feel like the one i put up um
yesterday that was just me doing
ir for like 45 minutes not very many
people are gonna make it to the end
um so maybe i'll just keep this one
shorter and
uh yeah please let me know if you like
this style of video i'd be
more than happy to see more i hardly got
through any of these notes and i didn't
even
manage to write many of them up into
superman because i just got distracted
i started talking and rambling so
let me know if you like the style of
video um i'd love to hear your feedback
so yeah thanks for watching see you in
the next video